README.md, before:

# r-basics

basic html with agility drills for building productive foundation for beginners.  This is not about best practice.  Rather, this is about rigid ways to get over the hump and diminish the feelings of fear, intimidation, or overwhelming amount of information, choices, and complexity.

The purpose of this project is to develop a set of introduction to html/javascript coding and git/github practices which emphasizes on achieving agility by repetition and structure for beginners.

This readme file will temporarily serve as a log or journal on this work-in-progress project.  

It's observable that most beginners can understand & remember the concept of git/github, repo, push/pull, etc. However to actually collaborate and to manage different versions of work, beginners tend to struggle on the part which requires infringing work done by different contributors and having to execute precise steps and so the struggle likely leads to partial or complete aversion from using git/github in the intended meaningful way.

So the first important point of this project is actually all the activities which had already taken place up to this point including this journal/log that is being entered.  This first important point is to act on what the skill set allows and refine or tune things gradually but avoid obsessive improvements.  The journey for a beginner is a lot more important than the result or the outcome.

The undocumented activities: Many steps prior to the successful creation of this github repo is not documented by github and could cause a great deal of anxiety for a beginner.  Therefore, the following is an outline of these steps:
  1)  using console, navigate to Desktop and create folders: 
    a) cd Desktop
    b) mkdir proving
    c) cd proving
    d) mkdir r-basics
    e) cd r-basics
  2)  initialize local repo and create remote repo
    a) git init (this creates a hidden folder .git)
    b) git status (shows branch & changes)
    c) touch index.html
    d) git status
    e) git commit -m "initial commit"
    f) git remote add origin https://github.com/accountname/r-basics.git

Commit message:

Repeat and why not use git clone

README.md, after:

# r-basics

basic html with agility drills for building productive foundation for beginners.  This is not about best practice.  Rather, this is about rigid ways to get over the hump and diminish the feelings of fear, intimidation, or overwhelming amount of information, choices, and complexity.

The purpose of this project is to develop a set of introduction to html/javascript coding and git/github practices which emphasizes on achieving agility by repetition and structure for beginners.

This readme file will temporarily serve as a log or journal on this work-in-progress project.  

It's observable that most beginners can understand & remember the concept of git/github, repo, push/pull, etc. However to actually collaborate and to manage different versions of work, beginners tend to struggle on the part which requires infringing work done by different contributors and having to execute precise steps and so the struggle likely leads to partial or complete aversion from using git/github in the intended meaningful way.

So the first important point of this project is actually all the activities which had already taken place up to this point including this journal/log that is being entered.  This first important point is to act on what the skill set allows and refine or tune things gradually but avoid obsessive improvements.  The journey for a beginner is a lot more important than the result or the outcome.

The undocumented activities: Many steps prior to the successful creation of this github repo is not documented by github and could cause a great deal of anxiety for a beginner.  Therefore, the following is an outline of these steps:
  1) create a new repo `r-basics` on github with readme, license, and .gitignore: do so with browser and login to account.
  2) using console, navigate to Desktop and create folders: 
    a) cd Desktop
    b) mkdir proving
    c) cd proving
    d) mkdir r-basics
    e) cd r-basics
  3)  initialize local repo and create remote repo
    a) git init (this creates a hidden folder .git)
    b) git status (shows branch & changes)
    c) touch index.html
    d) git status
    e) git commit -m "initial commit"
    f) git remote add origin https://github.com/accountname/r-basics.git
    g) git push -u origin master
With the exception of must follow step 1a thru 1e, repeat this several times and try skipping some steps or switch the steps and see the different kinds of errors.  Note that although cloning is easier, these steps are often used in other situations.
